It is important to know what the data looks like and the sources you will be joining,
so you know which fields will come from which streams.
Try to get sample payloads of each source as early as possible,
so you can create a picture of
the complete sink and where all the pieces might come from.
It is okay if the payload format is not a 100 percent finalized at first.
However, if fields change in the sources that are used in your join,
the format of the final output will be affected.
As soon as you have sampled data for your JSON sources,
you should examine the fields and data types available to you.
It might be helpful to format the JSON in a text file
for you to reference later in a format that makes it easier to read.
In this example, we have four fields: truckNumber,
destination, milesFromShop, and odometerReading.
In order to leverage the data you have,
you will create a JSON schema.
Pop quiz. How would you format this JSON data for readability?
Here is the correct way to format the JSON.
Notice each key and value are on a separate line.
Curly braces are usually on their own line also.
You've learned about analyzing source data.
Next, you will begin creating a JSON schema.
A StructType is a spark class that defines the schema for a DataFrame.
Using an array of structs fields,
you can create your StructType.
Each StructField correlates with the JSON field.
A StructField defines a data element.
When creating a StructType,
you pass a field name and a datatype.
The field name needs to match the JSON field exactly.
A StructType is a spark class that defines the schema for a DataFrame.
A StructField is a Python class used to create a typed field in a StructType.
You define a StructType by instantiating it in code.
Lists to the array of fields by name and type.
Notice the field names in this example correspond with the JSON fields earlier.
Now that you know how this works, let's try it out.
You've created your StructType schema.
Now, you will use it to parse JSON.
Once you have defined the schema,
you are ready to use it to parse of field containing JSON.
In this example, the DataFrame is called vehiclesStatusStreamingDF.
We pass the JSON field called value using the dot with column method.
Dot width column creates or overwrites an existing column.
Because the value column already exists, we're overwriting it.
The new value is assigned using the from JSON function.
The from JSON function uses the column name containing
the JSON value and the truckStatusSchema.
Let's take a closer look at the dot with column function.
Dot with column takes two parameters.
The first parameter is the new or existing column name we are assigning data to.
The second parameter is the data we want to assign.
Now, let's look at the from JSON function.
When calling from JSON,
we pass two things.
First, we pass the column name we want to extract JSON out of.
Second, we pass the variable which holds the StructType, defining our schema.